At work because it is a company of 5000 people so we have to use AV software and we use Trend. The biggest pain I have ever had has been the AV software. I administrate about 30 servers and every couple of weeks they send out an update that causes a false positive on all my machines. (updates come out every day some times more then once a day) Most of the time the false positives are nothing more then a pain as in say OK for them to delete things that aren't being used or some text file (yes it can think a text file is a virus), but sometime it deletes files that are needed, last week taking down a web server until I found the problem and restored the files (No real virus, false positive). Most of my servers run builds, and in several cases if we don't turn off the AV software during a build it will turn a 1 1/2 hour build into a 5 hour build. Also at times it interferes with our source control system (yes these are text files they are interfering with!). So when we do some of the bigger merges of code again we turn off the AV software.

So has AV software actually helped? Well about 5 years ago we had idiots in the company opening "I luv you" attachments and similar, and they were spread, but then again the IT department spent a long time fixing those so I'm not sure how much the AV software really helped. IT changed to a policy of scanning email, and that does help.

I notice that people seem to think that if you have X AV software and then load in Y AV software and it "finds" stuff they think Y AV software is better then X AV software, because they have no idea that they could have done this backwards and got the same results, but no difference in real results. Vacuum sales men have been doing this trick for years.

At home, me and my wife never run any kind of AV software. I have very good backup procedures just in case (for this and other more important reasons) and I have never had a virus on my machines. We simply don't download some "free" software from places we can't trust, and our email is scanned by our ISP.
