i will try to answer all of your questions....

Yes they are really bad

they can lead to cancer and other diseases

its not hype

it's bad because when it is broken down in the body, the chemicals are toxic

they are not worse than real sugar EXCEPT to diabetics who have to choose between the worse of the 2 

there is a 'good' substitute. I say good because nothing has been discovered that makes it 'bad' yet. That would be Splenda (so far)

most of them contain aspartame
Aspartame is the technical name for the brand names NutraSweet, Equal, Spoonful, and Equal-Measure.
Aspartame accounts for over 75 percent of the adverse reactions to food additives reported to the FDA. Many of these reactions are very serious including seizures and death.

A few of the 90 different documented symptoms listed in the report as being caused by aspartame include: Headaches/migraines, dizziness, seizures, nausea, numbness, muscle spasms, weight gain, rashes, depression, fatigue, irritability, tachycardia, insomnia, vision problems, hearing loss, heart palpitations, breathing difficulties, anxiety attacks, slurred speech, loss of taste, tinnitus, vertigo, memory loss, and joint pain.

the following chronic illnesses can be triggered or worsened by ingesting of aspartame: Brain tumors, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, chronic fatigue syndrome, parkinson's disease, alzheimer's, mental retardation, lymphoma, birth defects, fibromyalgia, and diabetes.

Aspartate and glutamate act as neurotransmitters in the brain by facilitating the transmission of information from neuron to neuron. Too much aspartate or glutamate in the brain kills certain neurons by allowing the influx of too much calcium into the cells. This influx triggers excessive amounts of free radicals, which kill the cells. The neural cell damage that can be caused by excessive aspartate and glutamate is why they are referred to as "excitotoxins." They "excite" or stimulate the neural cells to death.

Saccharin has been around for over 100 years and claims to be the best researched sweetener. Saccharin is also known as Sweet and Low, Sweet Twin, Sweet'N Low, and Necta Sweet. It does not contain any calories, does not raise blood sugar levels and is 200 to 700 times sweeter than sucrose (table sugar). 

Saccharin was removed from the market but put back on after an uproar from people suffering from diabetes. There was a great deal of controversy surrounding the safety of saccharin back in the '70s. In 1977, research showed bladder tumors in male rats with the ingestion of saccharin. The FDA proposed a ban on saccharin based on the Delaney Clause of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, enacted in 1958. This clause prohibits the addition to the human food supply of any chemical that had caused cancer in humans or animals. Congress intervened after public opposition to the ban and allowed saccharin to remain in the food supply as long as the label carried this warning: "Use of this product may be hazardous to your health. This product contains saccharin which has been determined to cause cancer in laboratory animals." 

Alot of sugar substitute companies defend their product and say that a kid would have to drink 6-8 or more diet drinks before having toxic levels in their blood
i know of kids that drink that much not to mention that these products are also in gum, candies and other foods
it would be easy to ingest enough to have toxic amounts in your blood

i believe that someday we will prove that these chemicals are cause for a lot of brain diseases such as alzheimers
it only makes sense that if something can damage neurons in the brain then it is damaging your brain