In short, large amounts of sugar or sugar subs is not good for you. No sugar subs are good for you. But in moderation, they're any worse than a flame broiled piece of red meat.

Natural sugars are fuctose (from fruit), sucrose (from sugar cane, sugar beats), lactose (animal sugars).

IMPORTANT--->These sugars are broken down and recombined to be stored in your cells after being converted to glycogen

. Glycogen, in turn, gets converted by the mitocondrea into andensine triphosphate, the FUEL of your cells. When you have too much sugar in your blood, you get an insuline secretion that forces your cells to accept the sugar into the cells.
If you are out of shape, the sugar cannot convert to glycogen efficiently or in large quantity. So the excess sugar remains in your bloodstream, a toxin, untill processed by your liver into liquid lipo proteins, thereby turning into triglycerides, plaque, lactose (mamary glands) and fat. The free sugar is also pulled out by your kidneys. Sugar is required for mamalian brain development. It is not that bad for you under the age of 2. As you get older, get away from raw sugar, your body will process enough of the starches and proteins into sugar on it's own.

Saccarin, an invention to help with the shortage of sugar durning WW2, was used to sweeten stuff. Wow, diabetics could use it too. Extremely large amounts causes cander in lab mice and rats. Just how much do you have to consume to get cancer? How about a life time supply conusmed in just a few months. So the pink package stuff is sweet but has a bitter after taste. Not a problem for beer drinkers.

Next came aspartame. (the blue packets) Make of phyenal alkenourics. A carcinogen IN LARGE quantities.

Ditto with the suff in the (Yellow package). Splenda is sugar but a radical has been changed with chorine so that the sugar still excites the neuro-receptors on your tongue as being sweet. BUT chemically, it is no longer sugar so that it will not behave like sugar does.

OK, so why are sugar subs so bad? 
What happens when the sugars are broken down by your cells or liver? If it is splenda, the sugars will have chlorine radicals unknown to normal digestion. Eat enough of it and you're asking for potential harm. What to we use to kill germs in pools? Chlorine. What happens when you have too much chlorine in your intestines? It will kill the microbes in your digestive system. Did you know that if you count all the cells in your body, you are a walkin host to bacterial colonies? The bacteria secretes chemicals that doctors today have yet to understand. Killing some bacteria allows rampant takeove by others. If the bad bacteria take over, you die. Rather quickly, and painfully.

Diet sodas are bad for you because they are sodas. The acids in the drinks will eventually soften your bones if you drink enough of them.

A soda every day is fine---if you have the original proportions, which is 4 ozs in the afternoon with a snack.

think of it this way, when introducing carcinogens to your body like Smoking cigarettes. a few puffs per day is not going to kill you. And the quick buzz is quite relaxing. This implies a regular size cigarette ( not the 100s) shared with a friend, ONE per day is fine. But how about 2 packs a day by yourself. It would be a no brainer that eventually, like 10 to 15 years of smoking, you will get lung cancer.

So drink three or four 20oz sodas a day. What do you think will happen to you in 10 to 15 years from now?
