First off-if you and your fellow politicians really want to address this problem head on, cut your own taxpayer funded health benefits to that of the typical middle class families. That will be the light the fire under your behinds, so to speak. You should also propose that Congress and the House have a mandatory 5 day workweek as well-because how do you enact change if you are not there to come up with solutions?

Second-universal health care is not the answer. It's a larger problem. Insurance companies have no incentive to save money to those they insure-the hospital passes the increased cost of the uninsured onto the insured. Hospitals should start incentives to pay in cash. Why should they bill you more if you pay in cash than they do the insurance company?

Third-pharmaceutical companies in the US subsidize the lower cost of research drugs for the rest of the world-especially those countries with universal coverage. US pharmaceutical companies do all the R&D and FDA approval process-other countires are then allowed to buy from the pharmaceutical companies in bulk-increasing their residents savings. Allow pharmecutical companies a percentage cap of profit for US citizens say 10%-thus forcing them to reap their profits from the other countries around the world. Make other countries subsidize their share of the pharmecutical companies. Once they pay their fair share-they may not be so quick to tout the benefits of universal coverage.

We've outsourced everything else, why not have video teleconferencing with doctors from other countries? That way-hospitals can refer non-paying non-urgent patients to lower paid doctors to diagnose remotely. This may also solve some of the personal tort issues-if you agree to be seen by a doctor who is not in the country when he diagnoses-you can't sue.

Also-start a secure transmission database for perscriptions-that way people will not be able to forge signatures or visit tons or doctors to abuse perscription drugs. This would also cut down on potentially harmful drug interactions. Or dosage mistakes due to sloppy handwriting. This will also cut down on the malpractice claims.

Also-the american people need to understand that there is no "free" ride. We either pay now, or later. We'd all like to waive our magic wand and poof-cheap affordable quality care for all. But small steps may take us in the right direction.