I am a lot more concerned about them than I used to be, and that's because I now do all my shopping, banking, tax returns, charitable donations, and bill-paying online. This was a gradual transition, but now I've become a lazy slug and probably wouldn't even know how to write a check these days. 

So I take advantage of the anti-virus email protection software available free from my ISP. I refer often to the Windows XP Help section to check my firewall settings and ports, and don't allow any exceptions. I make sure I install all Microsoft critical updates weekly. I use Lava Soft anti-spy-ware and ad-ware/pop-up blocker. I use a root kit detection utility. I perform virus and malicious spy-ware scans weekly. I never click on links in email, and I never open what little email that manages to get through my spam filters. If something in an email from someone I know seems - or "feels" - suspicious, I trust my instincts and pass up the link or the attachment that worries me. I've asked friends not to forward certain kinds of junk to me but they do anyway; I just delete it most of the time. 

I have turned off auto-fill and I don't allow any credit card information to be "remembered" at any sites where I shop. I frequently change passwords. I pay close attention to URLs to be sure they aren't spoofed. I only download software from trusted sites, and even then I save it first and scan it for viruses before running it. 

I block tracking cookies, even though it means I have to re-enter log-in info every time I visit a site. I run a utility that erases my browsing history as well as any recorded keystrokes. Last of all, I have a local professional computer crime specialist who I call upon periodically to perform an in-depth examination of my computer to make sure that nothing harmful has slipped by my defenses.
Source(s):
My age (I'm a senior citizen), my length of experience using the Internet (10+ years), and the many published articles, warnings, and advice that I read online at trusted sites.
