Well Ms. Bedi, your contribution to the overall betterment of Police Forces is notable. It been only a few years since i have been travelling around in world but during this period i made couple of observations. I felt that the places where people dont have faith in Law and Justice are home to most of other well known problems in this world. Its not hard to realize, how we would feel if we have to wait for years to get justice, or how wud we feel if we are terribly supressed because someone has power to affect the Law process. We all humans always tend to live in safer places, and we carry on developing things to make us feel more secure. So the basic question is "Do we feel ourself secure" . Well a normal indian starts his day reading a newspaper highlighting deaths robberies and corruption. He moves out of home, thinking he could be robbed and before going to bed he again has the same though that someone might break into his home. Well i think we all are aware of this life of ours.

So whats the basic reason, why are we so unsecure? . A simple answer, most of the time we know that we are doing wrong, but we also know that we would be able to somehow escape the consequences. This is the same whats happing in Police Forces. There is no one mentoring them. Morally, purpose of police, is correct as mentioned by you. But we have to understand, this thinking doesnt prevail in indian society. i still remember, many of my classmates wanted to enter Police Forces, not to serve nation, rather to make easy money. I think this is what a avaerage indian thinks, when he enteres Police Force. It would take years before we would be able to change this and that too would be only possible if our next geneartion sees a good picture of Police Force.

I still havent answered your question, "What measures need to be taken". I would say Law to govern Law. We need to keep a vigil also on Law enforcing agencies, and make them accountable to their actions. In country like ours, people often try to file complaints, so definately all you have to do is to lend an ear, to listen to their problems and figure out the drain hole. So first we need to bring fear of Law within the Law enforcing agencies. They can only enforce Law when they are themselves having faith in Law of Land. If you are able to bring more transparency and prove to people that Law enforcing agencies too are accountable, i am sure people will be able to overcome this sense of fear.

I truely appreciate the kind of contribution you have already made and i would request you to start some processes whereby general public is able to deface corrupt Police officials. You are more experienced to decide how.