There will be no end for corruption unless and untill each and every person in this country takes the responsibility of being a honest and loyal towards the country.

Here everyone can give the comment about corruption n how to eradicate it but first of all, see whether we r involved in it. even politicians also give speeches but they don't impliment it. r we also like them
(so, first see urself then think about others and show right path to others)

In our country it is imposible to remove corruption from public sector bcz. they earn little salary. so they can never change themself. for example the home department. A police person salary will not be more than 5000 n 10000, in this present condition there is no value for even 10,000rs. a human being have unlimited desire to fulfill those desires he tries to deceive others and create the situation of corruption around him.
(therefore, the government has to increase the salary of the employees working in publc sector, n ensure that there should be anticorrupotion for each and every department)

Show pity towards poor n others, then certainly others will also try to keep them self away from the greediness of money.
(Try to show others that u give priority n importance to human being rather than money)

The government has to take the initiative to educate the people for practising corruption in country n what r its disadvantage.

Here everyone is thinking that if i take the bribe then how it will have impact on the whole country. but it is true that each drop of water will make whole river. n if we draw one bucket of water from it, it won't get empty.
(If everyone perceive in same manner then we will be deprived of getting developed country in the future)

The countrys like japan n switzerland and other country which were badly effected in last three decades it has developed a lot. bcz the government is controling very well by implimenting strict rules. the govt should impliment the rules if they find any person guilty and involved in corruption then he should be penalised and strictly punished.

Everyone want to be successfull and richest person. but unfotunately it is impossible for all of us.

Everyone want to do smart work instead of hardwork. if everyone does the samething then who is going to there in the agriculture sector, manufacturing sector n the place where there is hardwork is done.

If everyone becomes rational person then its ok but we all of us must be honest and loyal towards our country then only we can prevent our country from corruption.