At one time in this country, health care was largely a local function--in the sense that local doctors--largely autonomous--and local hospitals were the source of most health care. Programs to assist those who were unable to afford health care or insurance came in three forms--local efforts, both private and public, state level efforts , and national programs--notably Social Security and, beginning in the 1960s, Medicare and Medicaid.

I begin with this as a backdrop to my reply to contrast what we have now. Today, after decades of commercializing medicine through HMO', with a legal system that is known to frequently make excessive rewards in malpractice cases, and with rampant waste in Medicare and Medicaid, a system that is technologically fare more capable than in the past--but that simply does not work as well.

And, I am sorry to say this, Senator--but most of the blame rests with the Congress of the United States--and it is a truly bipartisan failure. Far too often Democrats (and more generally liberals) have opted for spending large sums based on ideology rather than on empirical evidence that programs will actually work. Republicans (and generally, conservatives) are just as much at fault in allowing corporate America to have a free hand--ostensibly regulated but in fact operating with little or no oversight--and opposing efforts to fill in the gaps by supporting the public sector component of health care.

Following are a few specific public policy issues (together with some explanatory comments) that highlight key areas of policy failure and needed reform. 

> In the nursing home industry, special interests (corporations) have in effect had a monopoly on access to influence policy--a monopoly bought by campaign contributions. As a result millions of elderly Americans are confined to nursing homes--at great expense--which should not be there. At the same time, efforts to open up Medicare and Medicaid funding to allow payments for independent living expenses and residences have repeatedly gone nowhere. In an era when we pretend to celebrate "consumer choice" this segment of the American people are denied choice and are relegated to dependency and a poorer quality of life--at the cost of tens of billions each year in waste.

>Although the problem of and need for legal reform with regard to malpractice law and provider insurance has been evident for years, no substantive effort has been taken.

>Again, although the value of preventative care programs--particularly in poor communities and neighborhoods, has been long established, there are few comprehensive programs to implement this kind of system. And this despite the fact that there is overwhelming evidence that shows that this not only improves the quality of life and health, but it reduces long-run health care costs.

> The pharmaceutical industry (among others in the medical industry) is heavily subsidized (increasingly so by an administration supposedly championing competition and free markets) while at the same time the regulation and oversight of this industry is in the hands of n agency (the FDA) so much in the pockets of the firms they are supposed to be watching that high ranking officials in the agency openly acknowledge they regard the corporations and not the public, as their clients--and have been known to openly refuse requests for information by members of Congress--which has done nothing to rectify this situation beyond tepid rhetoric and shallow "investigations."

>Businesses are rapidly shifting the burden of costs to their employees in an effort to stay competitive. That may be unavoidable--but the greatest burden is falling on those who are least able to afford to pay for health insurance. And now, as a solution, we are offered a "health care reform" that would give tax deductions for health insurance costs--that is nothing but a transparent and insulting sham. Instead of looking to help to assist employers and employees, the President's proposal simply gives firms carte blanche to divest themselves of health plans--and to do so by shifting the cost to the taxpayers. And it won't even help the people it claims to target--those who cannot afford health insurance--for the simple reason that anyone making enough to derive substantial relief from this proposal already can afford health insurance. It is, in short, nothing but a "freebie" to business with little or no discernible public benefit--and at taxpayers’ expense.

>Our medical workers, once justly proud professionals whose judgment was respected and valued, are more and more reduced to practicing defensive medicine--with the attendant waste--and reduced to subordination to a commercialized medical industry that puts profits first and lives second--and if their claims to cost-efficiency have any merit, it is certainly not reflected in health care costs. Is it any wonder that there is a national shortage of nurses and other medical professionals under such conditions?

I've said little about specific proposals. I do have expertise in some of these areas--but the specifics are not the point. Any reasonably bright college student in public policy or other related field can describe effective solutions to remedy--or at least greatly ameliorate--all of these problems. Yet the Congress of the United States, which has infinitely more resources---and the power to act--, does nothing. That's a sad indictment of the state of leadership in our country--on both sides of the aisle.