Sugar has a bad reputation because most people consume too much of it and don't realize it. It's hidden in our foods, so we don't even taste it. It's called "High Fructose Corn Syrup" it's in foods like Ketchup, Syrup, Juices (that's right! Juices!), Dried or canned fruits, Sodas and other things you honestly won't suspect. When our body has an over abundance of sugar, it stores as fat, so we can have a supply of energy in case we starve. 
Sugar substitues aren't usually good for you because they contain so many chemical compunds, preservatives and other things our body has to work hard to eliminate. However, when used sparingly, they CAN effectively help your weight loss efforts. 

For example. Instead of drinking cola, try diet; instead of sweet tea (brewed from McDonalds, lipton, brisk or anywhere else) order unsweet and use a small amount of sweetner. Sweet & Lo (the pink ones) and Equal (the blue ones) are not recommended if you're pregnant or nursing. That should probably be a clue to avoid them as often as possible. The pink ones give me a headache.

Splenda is FDA approved for pregnant and nursing women, however, it's really best to avoid all those sugary drinks anyway. Studies suggest that drinking sugar substitues may actually increase your craving for actual sugar because your brain is recieving a signal from your mouth saying it's consuming sugar (the taste). But it doesn't provide the body any energy from it like when sugar breaks down into glucose, therefore your body is confused and sends a signal to consume more sugar to compensate for what you just ate or drank.

The BEST substitue for sugar is called Stevia. It's like 300 times sweeter than sugar. It doesn't negatively impact your blood sugar levels. Research hasn't proved it dangerous, but it also hasn't been studied enough to find any real side effects. You can usually find it in bigger grocery store chains or even health food places. 

Bottom line is, though, everything in moderation, even sugar, doesn't hurt. If you have 1 glass of sweet tea a week or 1 regular soda once in a while, as long as you're following a healthy balanced diet with fruits and vegetables, lean proteins and PLENTY of healthy carbohydrates (i.e fruits and veggies, 100% whole grain [not 100% whole wheat] breads and pastas). Drink lots of water, exercise 3 days a week for at least 30 mins a day and you won't have to worry about indulging in a sweet treat now and then.