his problem should be seen from two perspectives.

First line of action

Steps have to be taken by the government; first to sterilize the existing setup,
Secondly to arrest the future decline by taking up various measures like formulating self- fulfilling checks and balances in Police administration, instilling by serious training the civic, moral and ethical values in the personnel, addressing the remuneration and awards/rewards systems, housing requirements, improvement in work life etc.
-Thirdly to gear up the recruitment to select only the best probable candidates for the jobs. The top echelons of police force should set up glorious examples for emulation by the cadre. There should not be any coercion in setting up unrealistic statistical targets say in the number of offences booked, etc. It is high time the police personnel are rotated around the country on regular basis among the middle cadres (outside IPS cadre) to get sensitized with the realities outside their respective states. Lastly, the system should have a separate cadre who are at least undergraduates (B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., etc) to be assigned with the (a la paralegal) duties of attendance at court duties when prisoners are taken to magistrates, judicial custody to court to police station Though this sounds weird but for reasons best known to all it will increase the efficacy of administration of justice.

Second line of action

Steps have to be taken up on massive scale through media campaigns to project the police establishment as protectors and guides to civic population and NOT to be taken as terror and corrupt symbols. The public psyche should be enabled to perceive the force on positive lines and NOT to associate them with the criminals and law violators with whom they deal with. The media campaign should make inroads into the curricula of students from very early age to catch their fascination and make them dream in such a way that they should join the force once they grow up.

The colonial legacy of seeing the civilians as potential criminals and wrongdoers and citing police people as some negative characters to threaten children and women and the poor with will eventually meet the justifiable end long after we have attained independence and especially when we are becoming a developed nation, if the above measures are taken up by the powers be in the right direction and politicians are also involved in the said campaigns as everything begins from them in our democracies.

These above suggestions I have keyed in as they came to my mind, but still I wish that whatever right that is there in the forgoing should be taken in the right spirit.
Basically I am poet, and so I used my poet mind not caring for my old law graduate in me.

Thanks for the opportunity given to speak my piece and speak my mind and I hope the citizens as well as police will have their peace of mind on daily basis for centuries to come, come the police reforms contemplated by the worthy cop like Kiran Bedi lead to