I am Karthik Durairajan, an Indian who is very proud of my nation and watch it growing each and every micro second in all the possible areas and merging from a biggest democratic country to the fastest growing technological "HUB", with a child's enthusiasm.

First of all, we are very much proud to have you as 'The President' of our beloved nation. You have been a role model to all of us, each and every Indians who wish to achieve something in our life as well as for our India. And now that we are even more proud and honored that you asked us to share our thoughts with you. I am extremely pleased to be in here today to join you in finding out a solution for terrorism...

What should we do to free our planet from terrorism?

Have any experts reported one way or another on this key issue? I asked this question because it could affect my motivation, my thinking and others as well. The second important question was: "How are we going to achieve peace?" I seriously wished to do something to help advance the cause of peace and hence I had to know where I should start from.

It is not an easy task for an average citizen like me to find an answer for such a big question, the writings and opinions on peace so far have been very diverse and complex. However I religiously believe that my answer is positive and is achievable by all of us. We currently have high knowledge resource, amazing technology and the infrastructure to achieve 'Terror Free Nation'. But still i seriously feel where we are lagging at is 'Motivation' and 'Time'.

The myth that spreads across the planet among us are predisposed to violence through four key propositions as given below:

1. War is caused by any single motivation or by an instinct.
2. Human beings have violent brain and how we act is shaped by how we have been brought up, conditioned and socialized.
3. War or any other violent behavior for that matter is genetically programmed into our nature.
4. Human beings have, by themselves, inherited a tendency to make fights from our animal ancestors and those genes are inseparable from our body DNA structure.

But all the above statements have already been proved as scientifically incorrect by world scientists.

Then how do we achieve a terror-free planet? I feel if we get the following things, perfectly in place, we shall achieve peace, globally.

Code of Ethics by Credible Governments - In simple words, of the things the government think, do or say, government(s) should be able to be relied upon to be as honest as possible, truthful, build better relationships and good will, must strive for the benefit of each and every citizen are concerned. The same ethics must be expected of governments, corporations and other organizations as are expected of each and every citizens, that is us. Every citizen should have this in mind 'Do it like what you would have done to yourself'.

Globally Sustainable Economy - The economy must be structured in such a way to provide reasonable employment and thus eradicate poverty and hunger from our nation as well us from the planet. Nobel Prize winner Mr. Amartya Sen has clearly showed us how a systematic public action can help in eradicating the terrible problems of starvation in the world in which we live. But still, the economy must also be in a perfect balance with our small planet's ecology. I would say, this is probably the most difficult challenge we are going to face when setting things up. But, I am sure that all the other elements to achieve terror free planet are relatively straight forward and are easy to implement. All it takes is only coordinated action at the "world level" to achieve our dream 'Terror Free Planet'. As 'no man is an island' in this world, hence no individual nation shall remain disconnected from the rest of the world.

Global access to a competent and international educational system - This concept is very basic and very simple to understand.
Particularly, education for women plays a vital role in both economic as well as peace developments. The complete empowerment and participation of each and every woman is extremely essential in developing a terror free, peaceful nation, rather Planet. It used to be monopoly of warfare by men in earlier days which led to the exclusion of women from administration. But women's solidarity, skills and co operation, managing informal economy, and bringing up the next generation are all very essential to the evolution of a terror free planet. As women being the creator and transmitter for the younger generation through out the world, a change in their tradition, living culture and their customs play a vital key to the development of peace, which can never be super-imposed but must evolve from itself.
Adding to this, our past education was designed in such a way to make men stronger, richer and intelligent. And the same system still exists. In order to change our planet as terror-free, we must change our basic educational system. To gain peace and eradicate terrorism from our world, every individual must be educated. All of us in this planet must be taught of our own responsibilities towards our nation and helping it glorify. That is essential to understand the need of going beyond selfish our behaviors and also to commit ourselves towards the development of our nation as well as others, and thus it helps establishing an amicable relationship between other people and treat them as human being, despite of their education, status, wealth. As quoted by Albert Einstein, "Peace is something which can be achieved by understanding its need and can not be put in place by force.

Global access to health and human welfare - This system is also very basic and so simple to understand. In our society, the every 'more-privileged' individual should have a humanitarian responsibility in helping the under-privileged people, at least, an under-privileged individual.

Global system of justice - As everybody knows, without justice there can be never be peace, anywhere. Every nation in our planet has already instituted both a criminal as well as civil court systems in order to get every brawl from the street and getting them into the court, and those should be resolved in what should be perceived as a good and reasonable manner.
It is not so hard to imagine that the global system of justice is very essential for all the crimes against humanity, society, environment and all the other international issues. But at the very same time, there must be reliable, and I would like to add 'proactive' and dispute resolution systems for all the parties or people who are very much willing to work together by themselves in bringing a solution, in order to avoid the necessity of going to the courtrooms.

These manageable & measurable factors should perfectly be in place in every Nation, though they are all already existing, but in varying degrees. Strengthen these factors and thus we get our world becomes terror free and peaceful. Each and every nation's level of internal external peacefulness becomes a result and the strength of all these factors. In other words, the level of world peace is a result and the strength of above mentioned factors.

Regarding motivation, the political leaders worldwide should be motivated be people to get them work together in eradicating the terrorism and achieving peace for their nation. But the leaders have never been motivated by us. In addition, the people worldwide have also been not motivated by our political leaders as to what should be done from our side to glorify our nation and make it peaceful, as responsible citizens. What I mean to say is, we are not reminded of our duties and our responsibilities in securing our beloved nation, and thus our planet. And hence there is a problem exists both in leadership level as well as the civic level. Please have this in mind that all my due purpose here is to find out and show all that global peace is indeed possible, and nothing else. I am not trying to blame anybody here. I have completely understood that peace at every individual; every family and every community in this world are inter related at universal level. I have also understood that the power of one single person in our society, who is convicted, can make a very big impact to the rest of our community and thus the world.

Now let me summarize and make it easier for everybody to understand what my perspective is, in making our planet, terror-free.

1.Declaration by the Government worldwide in attaining respect and security for every human being and promoting respect for human rights in a society.

2.The Main aim of the Government worldwide should be attaining national peace and that should be the first priority, without diminishing other.

3.Government should ensure that the political leaders not being selfish and they do everything for the welfare of the people and for the nation.

4.Government can mobilize and utilize public opinion by issuing news letters, or websites, or E-mails or any other means for peace, and thus support free flow of information it increases the transparency of the government.

5.Government should implement transformation of local authoritative bodies like corporations and municipals to work keeping peace and justice in mind as their first priority, urge them in maintain it always and ensure equal justice at their level, to everybody.

6.Government should empower every citizen, at all levels, by ensuring sustainable development of every individual and equal justice to them.

7.Government should eliminate poverty and inequality within the nation first and thus it can be easily extended across countries.

8.Government should ensure women empowerment (both economic as well as political), and thus attain equal responsibility and representation in every decision making. Government should also ensure equality between men and women.

9.Government should ensure that there is transparency as far as possible and every individual gets how the government works and what it takes to execute a decision. This helps them in being responsible.

10.Every nation has rich traditions and varied values, should encourage and celebrate cultural diversity among people; as this helps in respecting the other individual and their values.

11.Government should ensure that every aspect of the education for children is being mobilized towards it and thus make it clear to them as to what's been expected from them in future, as a good citizen.

12.Government should ensure it co-ordinates with all the actions needed for worldwide security and thus attain peace.

So from this, it is very evident that global peace is executable, very much manageable and can be implemented globally across countries. I here by request or rather urge all to understand what our responsibilities are in making our country, a secured and glorified nation. Let us do our part in eradicating terrorism. It’s high time we should react now and do something about it.

Or later we, we may not exist, even to regret..