’m Kiran Bedi belonging to the Indian Police Service. It is a privilege to be on Yahoo. I am here to offer my answer to the question raised by the President of India on Terrorism.

Having been a police officer of 33 years, I’ve arrested and interrogated many terrorists. I have also run a prison, where I had an opportunity to interact with them. I saw one common string. Before the terrorists fire weapons, terrorism is already in their minds. If we have to work for prevention we will need to address the minds first. Because violence first grows in the minds, just as peace does. But once the mind is fed on terrorism and gets hell-bent on causing destruction to achieve political or ideological goals, then weapons, media and money is all oxygen.

The answer to this is straight. Address the minds. Not when it is already formed, not when it is already closed, but when it is in the making. That’s where a teacher, a parent, a neighbor or a spiritual master, plays a role.
As I believe lets go to ‘right campaigns and not wrong wars’. I think what’s happening today is, getting into wrong wars with wrong campaigns. We need to reverse this.
Let me give you an example; all Singaporean Taxi Drivers are linked with crime prevention. To me this is a right campaign.
Let me relate you a story of a man who complained to God of having sent them into such a violent, abusive and greedy world, full of counterfeit policies, plans, budgets, currencies and counterfeit human beings. God said: don’t you understand, I sent you on to this earth to be a ‘better you’. But you became a part of the problem and not the solution.
A message which has stayed with me for long which I recall is, “EACH ONE OF YOU CAN MAKE A GREAT DEAL OF DIFFERENCE TO THE NATION—REPEAT THIS PLEDGE AFTER ME… That was a pledge to fight terrorism!
I cannot say terrorism will be eliminated. All I can say is, terrorism will be contained and the world will be more peaceful for generations to come. And it will be a peaceful world, only when it truly speaks the language of Gandhi.