a) Develop quickly alternative source of energy to be able save 40% of our foreign exchange and self dependent on
oil resources not relying on imported also.
b) Give thrust and encouragement to Bio-Fuels, i.e. reasearch, development, cultivation and processing in a mass scale bio-fuels, JETROPHA OIL, productions.
This not only take care of the environments, but also give India the edge for not relying on the imported fuels.
c) Offer advanced technologies to Developing countries which can also fetch substantial foreign exchange.
d) Overall, we need to be self dependent on all spheres of activities, technologies, productions, to be out of the purview of any external disturbances affecting our Country's balance of trade.
e) Focus on Production and Growth of Agricultural which will be providing large scale employments for the resound success in the growth of India in the years to come.
f) Bring in Nuclear Technology as quickly as possible to take care of the current energy requirements of INDIA to support the need of the INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES and also bring in large scale investments on infrastructure to purusue our effort on production activities to keep-up our projected growth rates in the years to come based on our Five Year Plan programmes.
g) Provide Educations to all and make Education low cost since we now can have Educations through E-Learnings which I am sure is very low cost which Governtment can now subside for Villagers even without construction and spending on the schools.
h) More thrust to be given to the spiritual activities so that this will make people of our country to have a very sound mind with positive thinking and also withstand and work under severe conditions in the event of avoidable Nuclear Hollacaust.
i) Connect all rivers all over India so that there is no fight on WATER which is the basis for life sustaining.

Overall this is an advantageous position for INDIA, since we have abundent knowledgable poeple, low cost technologies,
and sound management systems and practices, more so sound democratic systems, more english speaking and educated populations to be able to communicate with rest of the world easily, which are distinct advantage for INDIA to be able to pursue their efforts in achieving SUPER POWER STATUS.