Just like the army, make the Police independent of politics.

Raise the salary of the policemen to such level that they will not think of accepting bribes (This is very debatable and the limit could be the sky). But it can always be made comparable to similar posts in army and other good profitable Public Sectors.

This should be followed by a strict enforcement of punishment if any official is caught accepting bribe or being involved in any kind of corrupt practices. Higher the post of the official higher should the punishment be, so that it acts as a deterrent to everybody.

During the training teach the police to deal with the common man with sympathy approach and not apathy and suspicion.
Involve the police in rooting out social evils like begging, by involving them in rehabilitation of beggars. This will not only give the police an opportunity to be kind and charitable, it will also help the beggars get a better life.

Keep the security to the minimum for the ministers and the politicians. Do not waste the energy of the Police Officers in safeguarding politicians. Stop using police to clear roads as the political leaders drive by. Let the politicians travel with the normal public, that way they will get a protection too as it is only a miniscule percentage of the people who are out to create trouble.

While rewarding them for solved crimes is good, punishing them for unsolved crimes may have a negative effect. The tendency would be to make a scapegoat of any easy target.

Ensure that the police, including the lowest rank police, are recruited for their ability and not because of their connections or money power. They should be assessed both for their physical and their mental strength and also their ability to hold temper and aggression in a tight situation.

They should be taught and expected to treat people with respect irrespective of the position of the person. Today they tend to treat the people on the streets with absolute disdain and start beating and abusing up people at the least provocation. Most of them are abrasive in their approach and tend to put the person on defensive or offensive, and this prevents people from opening up in front of the police however much they know the truth.

The main thing that needs to be addressed is that the police force needs to be taught to be more sympathetic and soft with the people unless they are known to be hardened criminals, in which case coarse beheviour is justified.