The only way to stop corruption in India is to bring rapid changes in the bureaucracy and Judiciary. Everything should be open and nothing should be hidden.
When a person walks for a licence he should know what are the procedures openly.
Modern facilities such as internet and e-governance can be thought of and implemented in true spirit.
Good minded person with patriotic feeling for the country should head any organisation rather than this highly expensive and egocentric useless IAS, IIMs, IITs and other high esteemed people.
Name one organisation founded by a highly educated person in this world. You can pin point one or two.
Only those organisations founded by good minds are surviving and progressing.
Like wise we should first scrap the name IAS. It shoud be IPDS ie Indian People Development Service. The ego in the designation itself should go first. Because it is an Imperialistic red tapism designation coined by the British and higher societies.
Next Judiciary and court proceedings should be made open and contributive and accountable. In case if a lawyer attempts to make fraudulent witnesses to save a wealthy accused that lawyer should be given a death sentence because the root cause of all corrupt practices is the way these lawyers making them escape through the loop holes in the law. This makes the coruppt more intensive as they can not be exposed. What a shame politics in this country. All those money this politicians unearthed through corrupt practices should be exposed. The military chief should be given powers to expose the corrupt politicians and bureaucrats, and he should be empowered to nationalise the unaccounted wealth of this rude politicians and bureaucrats. This responsibility for the Military chief with a very good mixture of troops to fight internal security of the country will be a good answer to reduce corruption.
If my suggestions are implemented, then the poor will be benefitted more.
Will my dream come true some body recommed this to the Parliament please.