I read lots of history, coz I am interested. I’ve read a bit about Hitler and his regime. Recently there was a program on NatGeo, about a guy, who is doing some research on Hitlers last days. He went to KGB museum, to see the remains of Hitler– his pistol, cigarette box, the teeth, it seems Hitler had golden teeth and gums. Hitler got it done that way, coz he did not want to visit the dentist too often, and wanted a permanent solution.

I have wondered how Hitler got to use the Swastika which is a Hindu religious symbol for his Nazi regime.

The swastika was employed by various American Indian tribes, the Navahos in particular, for whom it was a sort of good luck sign. For some other tribes, it was a representation of the four directions, and embodied the concept that the sacred place of human beings is at the center of the 4 directions.

The Swastika can be found in all Ganesha pictures..with ‘Shubh Labh’ written along. It is the symbol of prosperity. The Swastika is used widely throughout the world even today, by Hindus, Buddhists and the Jains. What does it symbolize ? The most important thing of course, the Sun. It depicts the sun circling through the sky. It basically was the Good Luck or Sun symbol known as the Wheel of life.


This one is about Hitlers connection to it. I did a bit research to know how Hitler chose the Swastika for this symbol and here is the story.

In Europe, in 1870, the German Archeologist Heinrich Schliemann, was digging. That’s what archeologists do. He was digging up Troy and Mycenae (I am sure you remember these places, from Brad Pitt starrer – Troy ). He dug out many things that had Swastika symbol on them. Heinrich was not a racist, but he popularized the symbol in his books and writings, stating that it was the symbol of the Aryans.

Long before Hitler – the fanatical Aryan supremacist – Jorg Lanz von Liebenfels – used the Swastika symbol for this cult in 1907.

But, but, but, the German Nazis did not call it Swastika. They called it Hakenfreuz ie Hook – Cross or Thorshamarr or The hammer of Thor. For the Germans also, it depicted the Suns movement, and the Wheel of life. They used the symbol in both clockwise – Doesil and the counterclockwise – Widdershins directions, but both meant the same, and not opposites. The Nazi’s used the Clock wise Swastika, ie the Doesil Thorshamarr.

Many anti-semitic and militarist groups adopted the symbol around 1920s. Hitler is supposed to have been influenced by Jorg Lanz and adopted the symbol around the same time. It is one of the most effective political symbols ever devised.