Mam, Tragically but true!
Society is equally responsible. A criminal feel he can escape by paying bribe.
A politician feel they are made for me, my personal employee
The result is police behaves indifferently. They are sure criminals will come and pay. Not satisfied with this they puts innocent on charge. Experence shows it is difficult to get rid of the charge for an innocent and honest. They are compelled to pay bribes and break the law by law protectors.

I suggest, First of all make them(policemen) citizens by imparting proper training. My experience says they (majority of policemen) feel they are unlike other citizen and can do anything. Whatever they do is right. This certainly has got to do with training. Senior officials are under pressure from politicians because they(barring exceptions) are more worried about appeasing the political bosses. If the lower ranks are given proper training, they will understand their responsibility better, feel pride in their job and will become more accountable. They should go to public and have more interaction. Assure that police is to help public and not to ask for bribe. Assure the public they are enemy of crime and criminals and of innocents. It will improve the image of police force.

Simultaneously senior ranks have to take the responsibility of defending their subordinates in hour of the need i.e. various pressures.

Other important aspect is pay and perks need lot of improvement. Their minimum qualification required can also be increased. They need to provided with all basic facilities so that they don't have to worry about their families. Proper accomodation, schools for their children & wards, recreational facilities etc have to provided to them.

Above all I feel it should be centralised instead of Statewise. It will help in maintaining the same standard throughout the country. Their transfers and promotions should be regulated in such a way so that they come under least pressure.

Above all police should come directly under some independent body instead of political bosses. It should be directly responsible to a body like Election Commission etc.