I was bemused by the answer of littlechr. I wonder if he knows whether the question has been posed by a seasoned police officer herself. Possibly, he is a police cop working down the line, disgruntled by the criticism from less a person than Kiran Bedi. I think the officer, has not been overly critical about the police force. She is only highlighting the bad image that came to stick to the profession, she is in and she is only rightly anxious that a system should be evolved to remove the blot that has besmirched its image. As a lay-man, the following are my suggestions for improving the image and the effciency of the police force:-

1) Make the police force completely autonomous and give it complete freedom in respect of criminal investigation and law and order. The Political leadership shall not interfere with its day-to-day functioning. Some thing like the Election Commission. The EC was not conscious of its powers untill after the tenure T.N.Seshan.

2) There should be a separate force earmarked for protection of the VIPs and the deployment of regualr police force for their security should stop so that the police is not detracted from their tradional role of policing and prevention and detection of crime.

3) Corruption of the bane in the police, as it is in every other system of governemnt. But, its effect on the public comes out directly and visibly. In a way, the role of a police man can be likened to that of a judge, for he helps in rendering justice to the affected and wronged. Hence, the need to make the force free from the evil of corruption. They should be givne a handsome salary and other amenities.

4) They should be inculcated a sense of dignity and moral values. They should be sensitised to the problems of the common man. Now, every police man feels that he is to primarily satisfy the political boss. That mind set, which is prevalent even among the top police officers should go. They need to be statutorily protected. The up right officer should be punished for any acts done by him in good faith, in due discharge of his duty.

5) The public should be taught to respect the police rather than fear the police. The institutions like the police are as good as the people are. The people need to be inculcated the sense of law abiding and no society which has no respect for law and the law enforcing agencies will be able to ahieve progress. Discipline among the public and among the police are interconnected. A continuous process of educating the public is to be encouraged. Religious and social organisations have to play an active role. As regards imparting the value system among the police, there should be a regualr training session for the police, where moral education and ethics should form part of the training.

6) What has happened the recommendations of various Commissions set up to improve the functioning of the Police? There should be an active discussion over these recommendations and worthwhile action be taken on these recommendations.