Hello, I am Prakhar Banga, age 14, Class 10 from Lucknow.
I am happy that I have got this Golden opportunity to answer a question by the honourable president of India himself.

First of all I would like to tell that a person's past affects his future.
If we give a child good education and teachings, he may turn out to be a good person who works for the benefit of the country and mankind. If we teach him selfishness, arrogancy then he may well turn out to be a bad, selfish person.

If a child is exposed to vulgar scenes, crimes and photos of dead animals, humans then he will definitely turn out to be an insensitive person, a one who is not affected by any of these shown to him.

If a child is taught how to steal, he will probably steal in the future.
If a child is taught how to kill, no doubt he will not only kill, but he will also not repent for his deeds later. He will become highly insensitive to everything.

We all have noticed that suicide terrorists are not only from low income or uneducated groups, but from highly educated and high earning groups as well.

These people tend to do those activities because of the way in which they themselves have been treated in their past, or how they have been educated or what kind of education they generally get.

Most of the terrorists have been taught that religion is the first and foremost responsibility of life. Some of them believe that anything can be achieved through violence.

The recent hanging of Saddam Hussein and lifetime punishment for Ethiopia's dictator have been good tasks, I think.
This has created a fear in the minds of all those who think they are the supreme and has been very good for all those who suffered due to them.

Coming back to previous topic, I think a child's brain is like a clear blackboard, whatever you write on it will be accepted.
So, the task of changing the minds of adult terrorists is perhaps, sometimes impossible.

But through care and good education the children who have been exposed to some things can be prevented for taking the worst decisions, although their lost innocence is gone forever.

I myself being an Atheist, believe that religion is the second cause for highly discriminative tendency in people.

The third cause, according to me is the widespread illiteracy and unemployment faced by millions of people. This is only because of the very high growth rates of population. Therefore, the government should take the strictest measures for checking these problems, which causes millions to starve.

With this, I end up my answer, saying that the three most beneficial measures to eradicate terrorism like a disease like smallpox may be : -

1. To give every child good education, good environment and good teachings so that no evil is created in him and his innocence is not lost

2. To lessen the separatist tendency of people on the basis of religion. I, being an Atheist suggest a unification of all.

3. The trickle down effect may help reducing, poverty, unemployment and illiteracy by attacking on the huge population.

Finally, giving the message to every one that no man can be differentiated from others on any physical basis, because we all are humans. We are different from each other only because of what we think and what we are from inside, not because of what we look like or how we are from the outside.

I believe that my answer would do some good and I again thank Yahoo! Answers for giving me this golden opportunity to answer a question asked by the President himself.