Has there ever been global peace at any time in the history of man?
Is it only now in the 21st century that human beings are asking
"what are the out-of-the-box solutions to free the planet earth from "terrorism" - From hatred, malice, civil unrest, and wars? Of course not!

After reading these intelligent, heartfelt, answers here....
I must admit there is an underlying current that echos others sentiments on yahoo answers - people want to either blame "ALL Religion" or more likely Judaism, Christianity and Muslims for all of the perceived evil throughout history. I can empathize why people are irrationally jumping to false conclusions. People are living in fear and dread - for the safety and sanctity of the precious lives of their children, family and neighbors!

They want the abusive bullying to end. They want answers, they want solutions to all this chaos and abuse right now! Because the sooner we identify the dangerous culpret (i.e. religion) the sooner we can put our heads together and create a new solution and execute a plan to change the world once and for all - ridding it from ever having again any future acts of terrorism, racism, civil unrest, genocide, sex-slave trade, drug addictions, alcoholism, child neglect, child abuse, rape, theft, murder, partial birth abortions, poverty, incest, adultery, spousal abuses, divorces, aids, cancers, diseases, poverty, lieing, embesselment, corporate crimes, prostitiution, child prostitution/pornography, communism, torturings, beastiality, S&M, NAMBLA!!! (If you have never heard of NAMBLA - you must do a google search and eduacate yourself) nuclear weapons, and civil and global wars!

(After all if we ignore the "moral hindrance" as if it did not really matter, we take our first step into an opiated life where nobody really gives a damn!)

This proverbial grasping at straws happens on a much smaller scale everyday somewhere in the world. A bad person commits an aweful crime against an innocent victim; and the town's people rightfully become outraged and demand justice "Right Now" Unfortunately their idea of justice is an immediate arrest of "a" criminal. They don't care - in the heat of the moment - who the police arrest, just so long as they arrest somebody.

They need somebody to look at and blame. Someone they can identify as the problem - regardless if the person is guilty or innocent. They rally into a mob-mentality. Find the culpret NOW and convict and hang him!
Then justice will have been served and the town's people can go on with their lives - feeling victorious and safe once again.
However, years later, they learn something new and completely different - by
evidence that wasn't permitted in court the first trial. Evidence that would have cleared the alleged criminal from all wrong doing. Now it's too late for the man falsely accused because they hanged him already!

It's called a Vigilante Mentality!

MORE People should be Outraged that such a Large Percentage of innocent people who have been living peaceful, charitable lives next to their neighbors for many, many years now and are being falsely accused and erroneously convicted of a guilt by association to these REAL Terrorist!
In fact the real terrorist have been enlisting more patience and tolerance and privilages from these same people. Because people are becomming prisoners to their fear tactics and threats! Treating these criminals with more respect than those of us who have lived side by side peacefully and charitably many years now!

There is a solution! But without an act of God, a miracle - I don't see how terrorist who are infected with a hate like it's a virus - who have become addicted to their own malice - their hate has been a passion too long lodged in their souls to ever be persuaded to forgive their perceived (or real) enemies. NO plan of action can succeed unless people are willing to take the necessary first step. Seeking Genuine Forgiveness from all sides - which will lead to reconciliation.

No more pointing the finger at one another, blaming each other. Holding on to grievances and injustices suffered by peoples ancestors Hundreds To Thousands Of Years Ago! It's totally irrational and out of control!

The vast majority of Americans didn't even know who the Prophet Muhammad was, or what a Koran was - up until the events of 9-11! Think About That! There is an ancient spirit of malice and murder prevailing throughout the Entire World Now! Deceitfully dividing people in order to conquer them! And this ancient evil is blinding more and more eyes, and confusing more and more minds. Trying to turn us against one another.

We can't change the terrorist. But we can become a united people - able too distinguish, Discern who our real enemy is..... It's NOT Each Other!
If we don't stand united in agape love, we will be divided and conquered - and will face living under a control of communism.

So we start right now, right here - forgiving one another - quickly - not holding onto and nursing past grievances. We must see and recognize each other as friends Not enemies. We have the very most important things in common with each other - we all want to live safely in freedom and in peace!

NOTE: (to yjnt) - The Western world Does Not need to adopt the philosophy of "karma" from the Eastern religions Simply Based On some absurd and ascenine theory you have - that "People in the Western world don't know how to deal with their inordinate fear of losing their lives."

Hogwash!

{Maybe the philosophy of "karma" wouldn't have to be adopted in the first place if people everywhere treated Life as something valuable and precious, beautiful and worthy to be protected at all costs!}
Here is a bit of wisdom - "Remove the plank out of your own eye first, so that you will then be able to see clearly how to remove the speck from your neighbor's eye."

"Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends!"

We create healing for the future by changing a past that had no possibility in it for anything but sickness and death. And We Heal The Hurt We Never Deserved - When We Heal The Hurt That They Didn't Deserve Either!
It all begins with forgiveness!