To free our planet from terrorism we have to really go into the root cause of terrorism
The first cause of terrorism I see is the tension and stress.
Stress and tension in the minds of men and women turn into violence and that violence then comes up in life as domestic violence, societal violence, then it becomes the violence between communities and countries.
So basically stress and tension in a person is to be managed.
The second cause of terrorism I see, is narrow ideology, narrow mindedness. Lack of sense of belongingness with the human race. Lack of sense of belongingness with the people of all different religions and cultures and racial backgrounds.
So we need to expand the vision of our young people. The young minds need to have a sense of belongingness with people of all different cultures and religions.
One way to achieve this is to educate a child in a multi cultural, multi religious discipline so that the child knows little bit about the wisdom in all various different cultures. This is what I would call as globalizing wisdom. Glosbalising widom would help and more and more interaction with people who are different than ourselves. Usually you know, there is a proverb that says Birds of the same feather flock together.
So we don’t need to be birds, we can be human beings; we can flock with people of different feathers, different colours and different beliefs and faith systems.
If you could achieve that then the world would be a better place to live.
A person identifies himself to belong to a particular religion. If his identity with the religion is above his identity of being a human being then, there is a problem.
First and foremost everyone’s identity should connect oneself with the fact that they are part of one divinity and one humanity.
And the third fourth fifth place of course, the other identities will stay on. They belong to this religion, this culture this language, this country, this nationality, they all should be there.
You can’t deny someone’s identity at all. Identities are good to have. They have their purpose but they should not super cede or overshadow the basic identity that we all have, that we are human beings.
If this basic identity that we are human beings is over shadowded then people are ready to give up their lives for identities sake. For being a Muslim or a Hindu or a Christian or a Jewish. People are giving the life for their identity!
So that shift has to happen. For that we need to globalize wisdom and a sense of belongingness with all the wisdom. All the religions of the world has to dawn in their minds.