I'd be ignorant if I claimed to have the magic answer that will solve the worlds problems but I do have some suggestions. It starts out with education.

Although it is not a short term solution, education seems to me to be the most important step we need to take. I've found that people who are racist almost always (if not always) have parents who are racist. Hate is passed down from generation to generation. We need to teach children to respect those who have different skin colors, cultures, and ideologies. We need to impress on them that there is no "right" religion but that every person needs to find his or her own way to their god or gods.

We also need to teach children to think for themselves. All too often I see kids who are told what do from the time they are infants to the time they reach adulthood. They don't learn how to make decisions and choices on their own because their parents and teachers never give them any choices, even little ones. In this aspect both teachers and parents need to learn how to give children more frequent chances to make their own decisions as they get older so that by the time they reach adolescence they will be able to function on their own. If people can think for themselves they will be less likely to give into mob mentality or become swayed by a smooth talking religious or political fanatic.

We must teach our children that they are part of the world as a whole, not just one village, one state, or even one nation. Nationalism needs to be removed from our schools. In some countries I'm sure it is worse than others and in this country it is most certainly bad. From a very early age we jam children’s heads with propaganda telling them we live in the greatest country in the world, implying that we are better than people in other countries. Instead we need to teach them that other countries have much to offer and even though they are different, there is no scale to measure what makes one society better than another.

Finally we need to teach our children that money is NOT the key to happiness. They need to learn that although money and possessions might bring happiness in the short term, in the long term they will leave you desiring more and causing you to behave in an unethical manner to obtain it. They need to learn that the rich are no better than the poor.

By educating our children how to be citizens of the world we can create a more enlightened and educated society. There could be a set time each day (or week if time does not allow) to discuss tolerance in our schools. There will still be extremists but it will be more difficult for them to gain followers if people learn to be Shepard’s instead of sheep. If we all learn as children how to love one another and care for those in need then terrorism will disappear on its own.