The gun cultutre has arrived in india. This incident of Euro Intenational school is a symbol of that. Our poloitical system is responsible for this. These Dirty politicians are driving us to western culture for their own profit. Forget about this incident - today's kids do all nasty things which they should never think of. If you visit the Shopping Malls in any part of Delhi - you can realise it.
Once By mistake - i went to the staircase of a shopping mall and i was utterly shocked to see the young boys and girls sitting there in a very compromising situation. I felt so ashamed on myself. I was terrified even to think of my kids going to Big School and bunking the classes and going to these malls. I have seen kids in school uniforms sitting there in Malls, restaurants and cinema halls(PVRs). Once i spoke to an attandant and asked him - why can not you stop these guys and gals (making noise and doing all kinds of volgure things in the hall) ? He replied very sincerely - we have orders from our bosses not to stop them and let them do whtever they want. If we stop them - they will not come again and our hall will be empty. Family people can't afford to pay so much for tickets. For these youngsters - it is a little amount. And as everybody know - most of the Malls and Theaters are owned by Politicians. From my point of view - 75% of the Indian Money is stuck with these politicians. They earn in Millions and Billions by way of all kinds of Ghotalas and bribes. Not even a single politician in our country is honest. And that is the reason for corruption in every phase of our life. If there comes a way and somehow we can punish these politicians and beaurocrats - this country can come to its original shape. At present these politicians have corrupted our whole system. Schools can not stop the kids . If teachers do that - that becomes a coral punishment and teacher is punished for that . Then who will take risk of his /her job and will teach the kids.
Kids want freedom . A few years back - DPS scandal came to light and what was the outcome ? Did we learn something out of that ? Simply Nooooo !!! Even from this incident we won't learn anything . People will forget it in a week's time. I am feeling so bad for these 2 poor kids- who did not even think for a moment before shooting their classmate. They are not the sole responsible - we should also share the burden of responsibility. This is just a trailor. Don't we read everyday in newspapers that so and so was beaten to death on parking, speeding or any small issue. We have lost our patience. This is how our society has changed. We dont respect our neighbours, our friends, our relatives , our teachers, our parents. Where is the culture of playing together ? Do we allow our kids to go out and play with his age group kids ? Simply NOOOO !!!! All these big Airconditioned Public Schools are spoiling our next generation. Why do the kids need A/cs ? Will it make them strong ? Providing them Pizza and Burger in Schools will make them strong ? all this will spoil them . But we can't stop these shool owners because they are Big fish. Who can dare to touch them ?
In my opinion - this incident is just symbolic otherwisw our whole society has become voilent and corrupt and our political system is the sole responsible for that. I have started teaching my son to become a politician in future so that he doesn't face any crunch in life. I have stardted teaching him not to be scared but to make others scared . That is the only way - we can survive in this jungle raj. Might is Right here in our country. GOD BLESS OUR COUNTRY TO GET RID OF THIS GENERATION OF CORRUPT POLITICIANS.