Take health care out of the hands of the politicians and business investors and establish a limit on personal liability for doctors. Clamp down on unrealistic tort suits and the unscrupulous attornies who bring them. We used to call them ambulance chasers and that's what they are, but in better suits. Accept that not all people should be be kept alive, just because the doctors can. Allow terminally ill persons to choose assisted suicide if they wish and make right to die documents executed by the individual and duly wittnessed by disintereested parties binding. Give important health decisions to qualified physicians. Establish a rating system that will allow a potential patient to see how their doctor stacks up. Train more Physicians Assistants and Nurse Practicioner to deal will routine check-ups and order routine tests. Don't make doctors run every test in the book just to protect themselves from frivolous lawsuits.
Don't try to keep every one alive when they should be or want to be allowed to die. Not all babies are capable of normal life. God or Nature should decide. Don't load Senior's up with pills for every sore toe. Don't put transplant candidates on the list if they have caused their own illness. Alcohol and tobacco smoking should not be rewarded with new organs when others are in need who did not abuse their bodies. Allow drug addicts to die. Allow HIV victums to die. Allow brain dead bodies to die. Don't make me pay for the care of persons who have caused their own irreversible & terminal condition. 
When people are dying, make them comfortable and give them as much pain reducing medication as they want. 
Give them the gift of death if they don't want to suffer anymore. I suspect a large part of the medical fees go to billing and records. Establish a national data base for doctors and partients. Start it now and in a few years a doctor can bring up a patients total history and know what he needs to know to make a diagnoses and devise a treatment . The doctor can also see what other doctors have treated the patient and what they have done. There is way too much duplication and waste of time. I get a dozen papers everytime I go to the doctor for a problem. The mostly deal with the billing. I don't care about the billing. Once I sign off that I did go and did see the doctor, I don't need to know the details of the billing. Put that money into a national data base and central billing and eliminate all the duplication.
Take a look at how our laws and lawyers are blocking the big donors from doing work in the USA. Why is the Gate Foundation going to other countried? Our legal system.