Having lived in Australia for five years, I am in favor of some form of universal health care system. I am one of the many un-insured with in this country and without having VA benefits, I would be forced to go without health care or face great debt. Being unemployed and disabled makes it even more difficult.

Any universal health care system will have to be two fold. Public and private. Privately insured and government funded. The government funded would have to have some form of bulk billing by doctors and hospitals to keep the overall cost down. Services would have to be combined as well wherever possible to prevent double billing. ie... seeing a GP for a problem then being referred to a specialist, then having to return to the GP for further direction. And of course, no universal health care would be effective unless it included dental coverage as many health problems are related to poor oral care. The major drug manufacturing companies have to be on board as well if this were to succeed.

The problem with universal health care is there inevitably becomes a huge backlog of patients waiting for surgery to be approved and there is the tendancy to use less expensive methods of treatment which can and often does, does nothing for the patient. (cancer treatments, heart, hiv/aids etc...) 

I think any universal health care plan would have to come with a income based scheme or means testing. If you can afford to pay for health care you should pay, however you would be able to recieve a percentage back through a medicare rebate scheme.

Additionally, the government should encourage those who can afford private health care to purchase it. The government could offer tax incentives or rebate a portion of the cost. Businesses should also be encouraged to continue supporting the health care plans of their employee's.

Early intervention would be the greatest saving to any health care system. Catching a potential problem before it becomes something worse is the greatest asset offered by universal health care. 

It is also certain that the vast majority of people in this country would be willing to contribute to a universal health care system if it was affordable and maintained the quality of care now available.

In closing, the possibilities are many and I have only touched on a few of my initial thoughts. Universal Health Care is possible in this great country and the time for it is now. Thanks.
