I was born in Soviet Union where healthcare was free, and a doctor was considered to be just an average human being, no better or worse than anyone else.

When I got sick and had a high fever, I dint have to go to the doctor. There was an option where the doctor could come to me. Why? Because that's the way it should be. When I'm sick, I have to stay home because:

1)I can infect someone.

2)It's very hard, and sometimes dangerous to make a trip to the med office to see a doctor when sick. (oh and dont tell me to just call 911 - that's ridiculous)


Let me list the things that are wrong with the system, and that will show you what should be improved.

1)Medicine's #1 priority should be about helping the sick - not about making money. It is apparent that in this country medicine is first and foremost a business, and only then - something else.

When I come to the hospital or the doctor's office, the 1st thing I hear should be "What's wrong"? Not "What's your insurance".
What's that oath the doctors take? About helping the sick no matter what? The movie "John Q" illustrates these problems.

2)There should be an affordable/free option to have the doctor come to your house when you are sick, if you cant make the trip to the doctor's office, yet not in a condition to be calling 911.

3)There should be clinics that will help ANYONE regardless of their income, medical insurance or status. The clinics should be abundant, and situated in accessable areas - not in remote places where only some people can benefit.

4) A doctor is NOT a god. He is no beter than anyone else. 

There is no reason why I should be waiting weeks or months to see a doctor. I know doctors are busy people, but if the patient has to wait two weeks to see a doctor when he has a flu, he might be dead by the time he gets his appoitment. 

There should be no reason why I cant see certain doctors because they dont accept my medical insurance.

There is a nasty practice where doctors will give priority to other doctors over the regular patients when waiting in line. A doctor is no better or worse than anyone else. 

5)Doctor's financial activities should be monitored very carefully by appropriate agencies. It is a fact that doctors often charge a lot more from the insurance than they are supposed to.
I live in NYC, and I know for a fact that many doctors illegally overcharge for their services and easily get away with it.
Someone should put a stop to these practices.

6)There should be agencies that help people who are victims of medical mistakes. I know there are lawyers, but unless the patient has more money than the doctor his chances of winning in court are slim.

7)Patiens should not be signed out from hospitals few days after the operation. People should be given ample time for rehabilitation. I know that staying at the hospital is expencive, but it shouldnt be the patient's problem. The only thing a patient should be worrying about is getting better - not thinking if his insurance will allow him to stay a few extra days.

8)It is a common practice that doctors often ignore or hide some facts about the patients health, so that the patient will get more ill in the future and will require medical help again and again. This is one more example how medicine is looked at as a business, where profit is more important that healthy people.

Put the taxpayer's dollars toward improving medicine and implementation of alternative fuels for cars/ reduction of pollution - NOT war in Iraq