UNPRIVITIZE IT!! I lived in Canada for a number of years, and now i am attending Rutgers University in New Brunswick New Jersey. Can I tell you that I cannot afford to go to a doctor in this state?? It costs approximately $100 to visit a doctor, and then even more to get your prescription! 

I have a story to tell. A few months back, I was deathly sick with Acute Tonsillitis. I went to the doctors office, the nurse took pity on me since i am a student and I don't have a lot of money to play with. She only charged me $75 for the visit, and i was lucky, the doctor gave me samples. I have an allergy to penicillin, which is the best drug to treat acute tonsillitis. Because of my allergy, they gave me another antibiotic. Unfortunately, since it was not the right drug to treat tonsillitis, i had to take a longer dose. The end of my 10 day period, i had to get the prescription filled again, because the infection spread to my other tonsil, and i was sick with the fever, pain, and inability to swallow (eat and drink) all over again. 

Upon going to the pharmacist, the refill, since it was not samples the GENERIC version cost me $98!!! I was just out sick from work and school for a week, and now I had another $98 bill to pay!! I could not afford it! when the pharmacist told me how much it was, I said to her "i-don't have that kind of money!" and i walked out, with tears welling up because i could not afford my medication. I called my fiance in hysterics, and he came out of his way to drive to the pharmacy to buy it for me. 

These drug companies are driving the prices, so much so that if you are not on your parents insurance, many students cannot afford the medicine to get better! And i did not have a choice! i am allergic, and there was no cheaper drug that the pharmacist could recommend. 

My point? When i lived in Toronto, you pay 7% GST and 8% PST, giving your total out of pocket tax to be 15%, on all goods and services. That money is used to provide FREE health care for all of their citizens, and used to decrease the cost of drugs so that they are affordable to the public who ultimately consumes them. Any hospital stay or emergency room visit does not come out of your pocket, but this essential service is provided for you by a government who also has TeleHealth...a 1800 phone number that you can call any time day or night to ask health questions on all sorts of topics!! 

Why don't we have these services?? Why do the American people have to pay fortunes, and lose their precious savings just to pay for a hospital stay? or blow an entire part-time pay check just on medication to get better? 

Please, Mrs Clinton, listen to this letter, and consider it. I value your opinion and what you have done for this country, we need better health care.
