There are many ways that we can do to improve health-care.

At the moment, drugs company have been trying to eat every single penny out of the poor and middle class family. People who barely make end meet every month have to pay so much for health care. We should limit the price or work out how drug company should lower the price.

In addition, doctors charge too much for a visit and they drive and live in expensive car and neighborhood. Hence, the rich will get richer, and the poor will get poorer.

Drug company and doctors might excuse themselves by saying that they have to pay too much for liabilities. This is where the people and government should come in and understand their points of view. We understand there are ethical practice or we assume there are always ethical practice in healthcare. However, that is not true. Many are profit-proven. You can ask a lot of Medical School Applicants why they want to be in medical school. Most will answer because they want to help people. No, the answer is they want to get rich and have a comfortable life. Of course, I don't blame them because who wouldn't want that life? Drug company is also profit driven. And of course, drug company is in private sector. 

So, the government should spend more time and money in developing drugs so that they can subsidize and control the amount of money the people would spend. You can go and look up how much pharmaceutical company make. Their profits are in the billions and the government does not do anything to control the drug price. 

However, I would also ask the people to be patient and understanding to the drug company as well. If there is a law suit, they would have to pay in the millions. Science is very tentative. They are things that can only be discovered after hundreds and hundreds of trials. And of course, strict restriction needs to be in place. However, because the basis of science is always changing due to new discoveries, we need to also have sympathy to the drug company as well. They are not miracle makers, they only try to make profits by selling something that they "think" might help other people. Imagine the world without antibiotics and other medication, how many people would have to die? If we agree that science can be changed, the drug company might not have an excuse of increasing medication prices because of law suit.

Same applies with doctors. Of course, we would try to eliminate doctors who are not competent, but before doctors can help people, sometimes he needs to step up and think out of the box. Sometimes, it's right, and sometimes it's wrong. We make right and wrong mistakes. But of course, we always find excuses. If you have given your life to the doctor, you might not have not found other ways to help yourself already. So let's fate decide.

So the government should invest money in competing in drug production or discoveries with private sectors. Government should not only be loosely controlling the drug industry, but also need to be in the drug industry in order to realize how much profit and overpriced products drug industry have made and marked.

In addition, we need more preventive care than chronic care. If we can educate people how to keep their health in tact, we might be able to prevent a lot of other chronic diseases. The gym is sometimes too expensive to some people, so maybe we should have more gym for people who want to work out at more convenient places. We need to target at risk population because only aware people would use those. And it wouldn't help the rest of the population.

People are crazy about organic food and although it has not been completely proven that it is better than other products, help reducing the price of organic food might help people eating more organic food than other.

I still can't understand how meat can be sometimes more expensive than vegetable. Maybe, vegetable prices should be lower as well to make people think it is not out of their reach.

I think there are many things the government should do, but whether they can do it or not depends on their interest.
