I've been a diabetic since 1993 and have tried every sugar substitute they've made...from Saccharin to Splenda and everything inbetween! After researching this for years, this is what I've learned thus far...

Research has shown that a lot of 'old' AS (artificial sweeteners) have caused cancer and many other health related issues. My doctor suggested that I used Fructose to sweeten my tea. I loved it! It's 'sugar,' just not 'bad sugar.' If that makes any sense! It got to be rather hard to find, though, and we had to travel some distance to purchase it. Not to mention the fact that it too had a pretty high caloric intake. 

Aspartame was the choice of AS by 'coke' manufacturers, and I found that Diet Dr. Pepper tasted pretty good...almost like 'the real thing,' so I chugged those. I stopped drinking the tea, because I couldn't handle the bitter taste from the AS and drank Crystal Lite. 

A couple years ago, I was watching a documentary on Aspartame and was scared to death!! A lady was on her death bed and doctor's were at their wit's end to try and find out what was wrong with her before it was too late. They eventually deciphered it was from excessive consumption of Diet Dr. Peppers and her problems were caused by Aspartame. Research on Aspartame had been tampered with, results had been misinterpreted, and people were misinformed about the adverse affects Aspartame could cause over a period of time. Cows and monkeys that were used as test animals died from cancer, as well as many other problems, as a direct result of Aspartame exposure. However, the researchers turned in wrong results in order to keep it on the market, because they were making a killing off profits...LITERALLY! The show stated Aspartame turns into METHANOL in your body and is like drinking FORMALDEHYDE!

(Some cause/affects from Aspartame: Headaches, hair loss, cancer, pulmonary disorders, neurological disorders, seizures, Multiple Sclerosis, Fibromyalgia, degenerated discs, death...and the list goes on and on!!)

After watching this, I stopped all consumption of any products containing Aspartame and shared what I'd heard with anyone who'd listen (family and friends). At this point, I use Splenda as my AS and purchase Diet Rite, which is the only 'coke' I've found, thus far, that is sweetened with Splenda. It takes great in tea and koolaid, too. My brother and his family have also stopped using sugar and sweeten with Splenda. You use the same amount of Splenda as you would sugar...and it can be used in ANYTHING you sweetened with sugar, just better for you. In fact, it is sugar...just not the 'bad stuff.'

Splenda is wonderful on strawberries and other fresh fruits, tastes great in desserts, drinks...and so far, I've not heard one negative comment about it. It's easy to find in any grocery or department store, as well as small stores like Dollar General. It can be rather costly, when compared to the cost of regular granulated sugar, but if it's healthy, it makes it all worthwhile. 

My advice, speak to a medical professional and seek their advice on sugar substitutes as far as their recommendations and opinion on different brands, etc.. As far as asking so many questions, Hon, you'll never know without asking! 

God bless you, Darlin'!
