YES, THEY ARE VERY BAD FOR YOU!...sugar substitues, turn into formaldehyde in the body,(formaldehyde is used for embalming fluid after the body dies, i have seen autopsies and it is the most horrible smell on earth, i will never forget it);.... and even though the FDA approved them, later studies showed the serious, toxic, effects on the body...but they wouldn't be to reputable if they 'changed their mind, would they!"..i could go on for miles, feel free to email me, or just visit yahoo groups, artificial sweetners, and you will hear of some shocking, terrifying stories, that will be a real wake-up call! feel free to email me.
Whether it's sugar twin, sweetnlow, aspartame(one of the worst), or sacharin, found in all the diet drinks, sugarless gum, weightwatcher's meals, etc., this 'so called harmless sweetner, supposedly helping the large percentage of overweight if not obese majority of americans/canadians, it is killing them too! i joined a yahoo group on artificial sweetners, as i had the same questions as you, and was inundated with thousands of emails from all over the world, people with m.s., arthritis, brian tumours, etc. whose lives changed if they stopped artificial sweetners..there message?..to get the message out!
i just googled artificial sweetners/detrimental effects on the body..here you go!
"angers in aspartame
Aspartame, the main ingredient in Equal and NutraSweet, is responsible for the most serious cases of poisoning, because the body actually digests it. Aspartame should be avoided by most women, but particularly in those with neuropsychiatric concerns. Recent studies in Europe show that aspartame use can result in an accumulation of formaldehyde in the brain, which can damage your central nervous system and immune system and cause genetic trauma. The FDA admits this is true, but claims the amount is low enough in most that it shouldn’t raise concern. I think any amount of formaldehyde in your brain is too much.

Aspartame has had the most complaints of any food additive available to the public. It’s been linked with MS, lupus, fibromyalgia and other central nervous disorders. Possible side effects of aspartame include headaches, migraines, panic attacks, dizziness, irritability, nausea, intestinal discomfort, skin rash, and nervousness. Some researchers have linked aspartame with depression and manic episodes. It may also contribute to male infertility...the article goes on for miles!
I suspect you guessed that anything that 'sounds too good to be true, isn't. I have been sick for 19 years, with chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, and more recently arthritis, degenerative disk, a possible brain tumour, possible ms(they don't know yet), i live in a state of chronic exhaustion and severe systemic pain, that even long acting morphine doesn't touch. i am severely addicted to sugar substitutes, initially worrying about my weight.
the problem with that is, that the body thinks it's sugar, and kicks in with insulin, and tries to give you a seratonin high, like sugar can, but get's confused, because it is not sugar... and in answer to your question, sugar is definetely better for you the substitutes, and it tells the brain that you are ingesting sugar, where the brain get's confused by the artificial, dumps insulin, expecting a high blood sugar, which doesn't happen. so you crash, and feel hypoglycemic instead!
I am so glad your brought up these questions, because little is being done to let the general public aware of just how dangerous aspartame(the worst), but 'artificial' sweetners are doing.
Second best choice is stevia, 500 times sweetner than sugar, bought in health food stores, is healthy and safe! so you can still have your sweets!
Why do i know so much about it, because after working 20 years in nursing, and ingesting tons of sweetners, i ended up in bed for 6 years with chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia...it's now 19 years later, and it has ruined my body and my life. i live in daily agony, a state of extreme exhaustion, that never goes away as i don't get restorative sleep, and excruciating pain 24/7 that even long acting morphine doesn't touch..and though they are suggesting, m.s., possible brain tumour, definite arthritis, addison's disease(adrenal glands don't work), thyroid problems, teeth falling out, 5 herniated disks, (some of these caused by the steroid they had to put me on)..i think the root cause is the sweetners..and i still crave them!
hope i answered all your questions, but email me if you have more. thanks for asking, you may help a lot of people
