There are no "good" sugar substitutes. They are worse than real sugar.

The reason they are bad is because all of them, except Splenda (sucralose) have been shown to be carcinogenic. Splenda has not been adequately tested and hasn't been on the market long enough for researchers to be able to track the effects of long-term consumption.

Ten years ago I was working with a woman who was diagnosed with bladder cancer. She developed diabetes in 1970 when she was pregnant, and after that she only drank diet sodas. Additionally, in her ongoing battle with cigarettes, she relied heavily on hard candies for diabetics, which are made with sugar substitutes. When her cancer was diagnosed, her doctor told her that since 1985, there had been a 300% increase in cases of primary bladder cancer. It used to not be a very common form of cancer, and people who had it usually had it because it had spread from another organ. In the early 1990s, cancer researchers noticed the bump in primary bladder cancer (meaning it started in the bladder, and not somewhere else in the body), and started trying to find out why. What they turned up was that it is directly linked to diet sodas. 

They used to tell you that because diet sodas didn't have sugar, you could drink them pretty much like water. At first, there were only a few kinds available, like Tab and Fresca. But in the 1980s, there was a boom of new "diet" sodas, and most soda bottlers started offering their regular sodas in a "sugar free" variety, using artificial sweeteners. And shortly after that, bladder cancer rates started going up. 

Her oncologist told her that you can have some limited amounts of artificial sweeteners, and not run into problems. For instance, sugar free gum is okay because the amount of artificial sweetener in it is tiny, and most people don't chew more than a few pieces of gum in a day. The difference with sodas is that they have a lot more artificial sweetener in them than a piece of gum, and people who drink them tend to drink several a day, so they get a lot more exposure. 

The carcinogenic chemicals in diet sodas usually build up in two places--the kidneys, and the bladder. There wasn't a huge bump in kidney cancer because it was already a cancer which happened with some regularity, so the additional cases weren't startling. It was the fact that people started getting cancer which started in the bladder, which was really uncommon, which got the attention of oncologists and researchers. The stuff clears your kidneys fairly quickly, so it takes time for the toxic level to build up, but it builds more quickly in your bladder because your urine, which contains the chemicals, acts as a container, and urine may be in there for hours before you go to the bathroom. The whole time that urine is in there, it's exposing you to the chemicals.

Other than her diabetes, my friend was pretty healthy when she was diagnosed. The really scary thing is that her doctor told her that the 5 year prognosis for survival of bladder cancer is only about 30%. He was very clear with her, and told her that because it was her bladder, there was a great chance of it spreading to other organs. After really super aggressive treatment, she went into remission and decided to take another job closer to where her kids live, but when she left she knew very well that her time might be limited. I have been unable to find out how she is, and if she's okay.

Her oncologist's advice was this: no diet sodas at all; no artificial sweeteners in any beverages like iced tea (use real sugar or honey, instead); limited sugar free gum chewing (and that's not quite as bad because it doesn't end up in your bladder, and as I said, the amounts involved are very small); avoid baked goods made with a sugar substitute, using either regular sugar or something like applesauce or another kind of fruit pulp, or honey, to give it sweetness.

The dangerous chemicals in artificial sweeteners can also cause another type of cancer, and it's scary, too. Most of them can pass the through the blood brain barrier, and get into the cells of your brain. Obviously, that means they can cause brain cancer. Doctors aren't sure which cases of brain cancer are caused by what, so they don't know how many are caused by artificial sweeteners, but they know that it is happening. 

Controlled intake of real sugar is safer for you. Don't go overboard, and naturally you have to be careful if you are diabetic. If you are baking, you can add a lot of sweetness to most things by adding dried fruit or applesauce. If you have a sweet tooth and like candy, stick to stuff made for adults (little kid candy tends to have a lot more sugar), or have chocolate, which isn't as bad for you. You can often satisfy a sweet tooth with things like fruit, too. 