Aspartame and PKU

This sugar substitute, sold commercially as Equal and NutraSweet, was hailed as the savior for dieters who for decades had put up with saccharine's unpleasant after taste. There are quite a few problems with aspartame. The first is phenylketonuria (PKU). One out of 20,000 babies is born without the ability to metabolize phenylalanine, one of the two amino acids in aspartame. Toxic levels of this substance in the blood can result in mental retardation. Beyond PKU, several scientists believe that aspartame might cause altered brain function and behavior changes in consumers. And many people have reported the following side effects from aspartame:

* Fibromyalgia Syndrome and symptoms of Fibromyalgia
* Multiple Sclerosis symptoms
* Dizziness
* Headaches
* Menstrual problems

Aspartame Dangers

The dangers of aspartame poisoning have been a well guarded corporate secret since the 1980s. The research and history of aspartame dangers is conclusive as a cause of illness and toxic reactions in the human body. Aspartame dangers are the result of its chemical structure, and its use during pregnancy and by children is one of the greatest aspartame dangers of all.

Aspartame dangers are the common denominator for over 92 different health symptoms at the root of modern disease. The Aspartame Detoxification Program demonstrates the most effective way to reverse aspartame dangers by removing the underlying cause - aspartame.
Aspartame Disease

I counsel aspartame victims worldwide and witness nine out of ten clients restore their health by following the Aspartame Detoxification Program. Recovery from Aspartame Disease begins with detoxifying your body of all residual chemical toxins from aspartame’s chemical structure of phenylalanine, aspartic acid and methanol and their toxic by-products.

Many contemporary health practitioners call modern disease syndromes ASPARTAME DISEASE because aspartame is at the root of diseases such as:

aspartame fibromaylagia, aspartame restless leg syndrome, aspartame and migraines, aspartame and vaginal irritation, aspartame and tumors, aspartame allergy, aspartame multiple sclerosis, bladder cancer aspartame, aspartame and central nervous system, aspartame & infertility, aspartame and weight control, aspartame and weight gain, and aspartame Parkinson's Disease. The chemical structure of aspartame causes the body to mimic these disease symptoms, but bottom line, it's aspartame disease.
Aspartame Structure

The structure of aspartame seems simple, but what a complicated structure aspartame really is. Two isolated amino acids in aspartame are fused together by its third component, deadly methanol. In this structure, methanol bonds the two amino acids together, but when released at a mere 86 degrees Fahrenheit, the methanol becomes a poisonous free radical.

Methanol breaks down into formic acid and formaldehyde, embalming fluid. Methanol is a dangerous neurotoxin, a known carcinogen, causes retinal damage in the eye, interferes with DNA replication, and causes birth defects.

Aspartic acid makes up forty percent of the structure of aspartame. Under excess conditions, the structure of aspartic acid can cause endocrine (hormone) disorders and vision problems. Aspartic acid is a neuroexicter, which means its structure affects the central nervous system. Hyperactivity is stimulated by aspartic acid, so this structure is not good for ADD/ADHD conditions and should be avoided during pregnancy.

Adverse reactions to aspartic acid are: headaches/migraines, nausea, abdominal pain, fatigue, sleep disorders, vision problems, anxiety attacks, depression, and asthma/chest tightness. The second isolated amino acid in aspartame's chemical structure is phenylalanine, fifty percent of aspartame's 3-D structure. Too much phenylalanine causes seizures, elevated blood plasma, is dangerous for pregnancy causing retardation, PMS caused by phenylalanine's blockage of serotonin, insomnia, and severe mood swings.
