If you have diabetes, it is very important to find a good sweetener which won't damage your health. This must be on everyone's mind, wow 400 answers!

The blue stuff - aspartame - nutrasweet, etc. is a neurotoxin that crosses the blood-brain barrier. (bad) Weird aftertaste and you can't cook with it. It makes my legs cramp. FDA has approved it for 50mg/Kg body weight that would be about 18-19 cans of diet cola a day for someone weighing about 150 pounds. I wouldn't use it. 

The pink stuff -- saccharine - Sweet n Low, Sugar Twin, causes cancer in rats (bad). Weird aftertaste. You can cook with it though. FDA has approved for 5 mg/Kg body weight -- about 9-12 packets per day. The fact that it was banned for the cyclamates it contains for causing bladder cancer in laboratory animals, so long, I wouldn't use it. Some claim it's safe. 

The yellow stuff --Spenda -- was once advertised as inert and not cause cancer. It is not metaolized and just passes through you except for the chlorine. You can cook with it. No weird aftertaste. The FDA has approved it for 5 mg/Kg body weight, which is the least of all the sweeteners and comes out to 6 cans of diet cola per day. No studies say it causes cancer. It's made by substituting three atoms of chlorine for three hydroxyl groups on the sugar molecule. This change produces a sweetener that has no calories (our enzymes can't use it), yet is 600 times sweeter than sucrose. Chlorine however is not good.. It causes free radical formation -- heart disease, cancer. Because chlorine is so ubiquitous in modern society, as is an epidemic of heart disease and cancer, it may be difficult to tease this effect out unless controlling for it in clinical trials. 

Stevia, which you can get in heatlh food stores, etc. has no known side effects. It's made from a member of the chyrsanthemum family. It's ok. I think it has a weird aftertaste. The FDA has not rated it for some reason. It does not cause cancer and you can cook with it. 

Acesulfame K (Sunett, Sweet One) has the best rating by the FDA at 15 mg per kg which would be like 30 to 32 cans of diet lemon-lime soda a day. It's ok for cooking. The Center for Science in the Public Interest (do-good nonprofit scientists I trust) does not agree that it is safe. From their website: ... acetoacetamide, a breakdown product, has been shown to affect the thyroid in rats, rabbits, and dogs. Administration of 1% and 5% acetoacetamide in the diet for three months caused benign thyroid tumors in rats. The rapid appearance of tumors raises serious questions about the chemical's carcinogenic potency."

There is a new one. Neotame whcih has not products available yet, but watch for it. FDA has approved it for 18 mg a day. You can cook with it. I haven't tasted it. 

Sugar has 16 calories per spoonful, but rots your teeth, diminishes your ability to resorb calcium, is addictive, makes you fat and causes diabetes. 

Honey contains about 20 calories per teaspoon, but also at least 15 nutrients whereas sugar and artificial sugars have none. The sweetness of honey allows you to use less than sugar for the same sweetness. Honey enters the bloodstream slowly, 2 calories per minute, while sugar enters quickly at 10 calories per minute, causing blood sugars to fluctuate rapidly and wildly. Baking with honey is good-- it keeps the products moist by pulling water out of the air, and is good for digestion. I think I just talked myself into using small amounts of honey -- I had been using Splenda.

Wishing you all the best!
Source(s):
Ph.D. Nutritionist, Registered, Licensed Dietitian